## Criteo Project

Criteo is a marketing solution that enables online businesses to follow up visitors who have left a website without a transaction by using customized banners as ads. The solution operates on a pay per click/cost per click basis. Advertisers only pay for the customers that click on an ad banner. In this particular scenario, the problem we are trying to solve is to predict the likelihood that a user will click on a given ad on a page. The prediction is done based on features generated from traffic logs along with click labels.

The Criteo dataset has approximately more than 46 million records and contains 26 categorical variables and 13 numeric variables. We take the following steps to prepare our solution - data analysis, data preparation, feature engineering, model training and hyperparamter tuning. We perform exploratory data analysis on the given data and realize that there are missing, null, negative and hashed values. Without columnar description, it is hard to make meaningful assumptions about backfilling data. We perform downsampling and upsampling to maintain balance between the two outcomes. We also test for correlation between variables (and log transformed variables) and realized that multicolinearity was not an issue. Then we impute using mean.

We use logistic regression for baseline modeling and compute the confusion matrix, ROC curve, and Precision vs Recall at every iteration to monitor performance. We explore normalization of numeric variables and binning, hashing, one-hot-encoding and chi-squared feature selection for categorical variables. Once we construct end to end pre-processing pipeline we use the data to evaluate Random Forest and Gradient Boosted Trees algorithms. Neither delivers improvement in the monitored metrics and are prohibitively slow on the available environment.